it'll be harder for governments to get
away with just taxing their people by,
you know, printing more and more money,
right? And that goes for us as well as
foreign
[Music]
governments. Hey everyone, welcome to
the Smart Economy podcast where we ask
your favorite builders the questions you
wish you could ask yourself. This is a
production of neonnewstoday.com and I'm
your host Dylan Grabowski. In this
episode, we're joined by Paul Nuner, the
CEO and founder of Telcoin, a digital
cash services provider that was recently
granted approval to open Nebraska's
first digital asset bank. In this
conversation, we discuss the origin
story for Telcoin as a mobile payment
solution for Telos, the statebased
approach to banking
regulations, the focus on using
blockchain solutions for payment and not
specific stable coins, the current state
of the stable coin and market structure
bills moving through Congress, Telcoin's
goal to onboard three billion users
across the globe, and so much more. Just
a reminder, nothing said on this podcast
is a solicitation to buy or sell any
tokens and that the host or guest might
hold tokens discussed in any given
episode. You can view a disclaimer at
neonnewtoday.com. And if you enjoyed
this episode, please rate and review it
on your favorite podcasting platform and
share it with your friends and family.
Every rating, review, like, and comment
really does help us reach more people
and bring you more of your favorite
guests. With all that said, I really
enjoyed speaking with Paul, and I hope
you enjoy the conversation, too. Hey
everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy
podcast. Today, we're joined by Paul
Nuner, the CEO and founder of Telcoin,
which leverages blockchain technology to
provide access to lowcost, highquality
D5 products for mobile phone users
around the world. How you doing today,
Paul? I'm doing great. Thanks, Dylan.
Yeah, I'm really excited about this
conversation. I kind of want to talk
about just like the genesis of Telcoin
and then your stable coin offering and
then also get your kind of insights into
what stable coin regulations might look
like in the US and the kind of trends
we're seeing at a global level. But
before we delve into all of that, um the
genesis of Telcoin kind of starts before
your entry into the crypto space. So
before entering blockchain, you founded
Mobius Wireless and Sedona. So can you
just talk briefly about your uh the
beginning of your working career and and
why and what you were building in
telecom? My background is in
telecommunications and specifically in
the fraud and security space. So you
know I at least technically was
intrigued by crypto when I first heard
about it. Um but also really just saw
distributed ledger as a perfect fit for
telecommunications that it's the most
distributed industry in the world.
There's two or three mobile phone
companies in every country. They have
huge data centers close to 7 billion
handsets and arguably knowing in terms
of KYC knowing around 7 billion people
to some extent. So that's kind of the
original connection. Um and uh but yeah
that's that's kind of where it came
from. the fraud and security side is is
really also just from me I saw that you
know a lot of the cost to in financial
services was really related to securing
a transaction and that and that I think
that telecoms have a great ability to do
that technically. Do you see that um
like the telecoms are are ready and able
to kind of adopt blockchain particularly
for like identity standards? Um because
when we talk about like fraud and
security, the first thing that pops to
mind is like like decentralized identity
or like giving an identity to an
individual. And of course, you know, you
mentioned decentralization. So the thing
that we care about is not getting our
data leaked when a centralized entity is
is holding this. So telecoms move like
glacially slow. Are your former peers
starting to grock like the opportunities
that are available with like distributed
ID, decentralized ID and things of this
nature or are we still kind of five 10
years away from that? Well, yeah, they
they are slow in general. I mean we we
were the first to join the the GSMA
which is the largest telecom industry
group uh in about 20 I think yeah right
at the beginning of 2018 so we were the
first blockchain company to join sorry
and you know we've been banging on the
door year after year we we joined all
the conferences we've you know met a lot
of very nice meetings I think that one
of the issues that a lot of telecoms had
particularly in the developing world
where they were really already very much
under the scrutiny of regulators
in a lot of countries they're the
largest company in the country and
constantly getting accused of not paying
enough tax etc. So they really wanted to
avoid any additional scrutiny. Um, I do
think that's rapidly changing now
because uh particularly as the US has
started to embrace all of this, but also
just as as they see the promise of
stable coins and what that can really
mean to telecoms, I think they're
starting to really understand the
message that we've been preaching for a
long time, which is that in the internet
of money where there's just stable coins
floating and directly transacting from
consumer to merchant, um, the the
telos's can play a very large role in
running that internet of money just like
they run the normal internet today. I
think the the kind of revolution at
least for millennials was watching the
bunny hopping from landlines to mobile.
Um, you know, the the world became
connected in the late 90s, early 2000s
when mobile really started taking off.
And of course, that's the main value
prop of of blockchain and crypto is
anyone with access to the internet can
download a wallet and start
participating in this global commerce.
Um, so it's really exciting to kind of
see that you're sticking with the
leaprog and kind of jumping into the
stablecoin ecosystem after having
started your career in the telecom
space. So before we kind of like come
closer to the ground, I do want to hear
about your genesis story with Bitcoin or
ETH or whatever it was. Um, Telco
Telcoin was founded in early 2017. So, I
would assume that you you're here from
the pre ICO era. So, what was kind of
like your first entrance into Bitcoin or
Ethereum? What were your initial
thoughts? Did Did it take a couple years
for you to have your aha moment? So,
yeah, I I heard about crypto. Well,
first of all, our ICO was right at the
end of 2017, right? I think we launched
it around Christmas time and closed it
right after New Year's. That was, you
know, there was a boom if you remember
that if you look at the ETH, you know,
charts back then and Bitcoin right
before it. There was kind of a a boom
there. But earlier in the year, I I'd
been to I remember going actually to
Miami to a GSMA conference and somebody
sat up there talking about how
blockchain could be used to to
effectively validate intercarrier
uh communication. Like for example, a
lot one of the big fraud problems that
telecoms face is what's called bypass
fraud where you know they they disguise
international calls as as domestic calls
or they route SMS from your you know
that you get a onetime password to
through a cheaper route which is not
very secure for you but it also cheats
the telecom and also the tax authorities
out of a lot of revenue. Essentially
what this guy was proposing was um that
you could do that all on blockchain and
I think it's possible. It's not really
the most efficient way to do it though.
You're talking about bu l literally
billions of records a day and actually
trying to use that to reconcile uh
records between um carriers was at least
not very practical at the time. But
anyway, that that's what really got me
first thinking about it as opposed to
the finance side of it or Bitcoin. I
mean, of course, I'd heard about it, but
that got me really thinking about the
technology. Came back to Tokyo. I was
based in Tokyo at the time and and sat
down with colleagues and and really
talked through and we finally just
settled on the idea of instead of doing
something under the hood, let's go ahead
and try to create a a token that could
uh be a bridge between mobile money
platforms, telecom run, e-wallets
essentially. And that that's kind of
where the original where we started. Um
the overlying or the the the the basic
premise though was we thought that
distributed ledger made sense for
telecoms. Uh but the original use case
was crossber transfers and that that
sort of evolved um into more of a stable
coin play just because that you don't
hear from too many ICO era projects
today in April 2025. Um, so like what's
a a nugget of gold that you've taken
away from Telcoin's ability to survive
like two pretty brutal bare markets? Um,
having been an ICO project, right? So,
we I mean I I think I was a little bit
fortunate that I I wasn't really looking
for the ICO to make any personal profit.
I didn't really need the uh fund, you
know, the money really at the time. And
so not not that that was you know the
company was obviously from day one
trying to make money but it wasn't
looking at the ICO as a way to actually
just get rich quick or anything like
that. So um we probably could have given
a little bit more thought at the early
side of how we you know the early stage
of how we maybe could uh capitalize on
it but honestly I think it's better that
we didn't. We we we were very genuine in
our white paper and our approach to
really trying to set aside as much of
the the token for mobile networks. I
mean unfortunately it took us a really
really long time to convince mobile
networks to really get on board and we
effectively had to I think become a
become a bank first and and get into the
whole stable coin game. But the token
you know that that is really where we
started and it's what formed our
community and and generated a lot of
interest in what we were doing. So, you
know, it was it it's it was a journey. I
think that the the bare markets really
honestly flushed out a lot of the people
that weren't true believers in what we
were doing. So, it made us a better
company uh for it in the long run. Cool.
So, we're going to talk a little bit
about how Telcoin is becoming like a a
neo bank or or like a new state
chartered banking like entity, but I do
want to kind of hear, you know, from an
8-year-old project, seven and a half
year old project now. How did you
envision Telcoin when you first launched
it and how has that kind of vision or
mission for the company kind of adapted
and changed over the past seven and a
half years? So the the original concept
was really just engaging with telecoms
and engaging with their mobile money
platforms. One of the one of the issues
that we ran into pretty early on is that
the first license we got was in
Singapore with the MAS, the Monetary
Authority of Singapore. We got a major
payment institution license, but none of
none of the banks would work with us.
And that wasn't only us. I mean, MAS was
really struggling with the fact that
they'd give out licenses, but but none
of their banks would work with any of
the licensed entities that were dealing
with crypto. And, you know, the reason
was Standard Charter, HSBC, there's, you
know, a number of uh Singapore-based or
Singapore banks and that that received
huge fines from the US government. And
so, they were very very cautious about
anything that could be cons construed as
an AML risk. I remember distinctly in
the end of 2019, so before or actually I
guess very beginning of 2020, uh our
Singapore attorneys joking that it was
probably going to be easier for us to
create a bank, a digital asset bank in
the United States and bridge it to to
Singapore or branch it to Singapore
rather than to simply open a normal bank
account in Singapore. And we laughed at
the time, but it turned out to be true.
I think the the point is that really a
lot of these central banks and also just
banks around the world were their AML
programs really revolved around fear and
fear of being sanctioned by the US. So
the only way to really solve that
problem was I thought was to move the
nexus of the company in the United
States, not be afraid of that, really
embrace um regulation and effectively
become a digital asset bank and and that
foundation is really what needed that
solved our problem, but we also saw that
this is solving a problem for kind of
the rest of the ecosystem. So we're
we're really really excited about
finally getting to that point. Yeah, you
guys moved right into the belly of the
beast and there was a lot
of up until like Trump's election
basically there was just a lot of
regulatory and
legislative confusion not very much a
positive outlook on this industry
actually some might say was looking dire
and pretty negative. So in 20 late 2019
early 2020 how did you guys look around
in the US and find uh a favorable
jurisdiction to land in and to start
working with? So I you know I first
looked at the one charter that had
recently been created in Wyoming that
custodia you know applied for and I
think you you know that story. So my
Notre Dame roommate and best friend um
Mike Floyd, who's now in US Congress on
financial services, but he was with the
Nebraska legislature at the time and he
had been the head of the department of
banking there or sorry the banking
committee. He said, you know, forget
about Wyoming, why don't you come visit
uh Nebraska? So, you know, we met with
Governor Rickettts and he was extremely
supportive. uh he saw this as an
opportunity for Nebraska in the future
to become a a haven for uh correspondent
banking for digital assets. The idea
being that really only the largest banks
are going to be able to digital assets
inhouse. I think the vast majority of
them are are really going to look
towards a banker's bank for digital
assets, a corresponding bank that helps
uh process that as a sort of white label
product. And and that's something that's
actually very beautiful about the state
system. There's a lot of inefficiencies
about you know our state system but one
of the great things is that certain
states can decide to invite certain
technologies have a lighter regulatory
touch and and be more sort of a
petradish for for different technologies
and and you know Nebraska has a history
of that with in card processing and
insurance industries and and so he he
saw that immediately as as an
opportunity. his head of department
banking had was stepping out at the time
and he helped us draft the legislation
also with the help of general counsel
from uh in Wyoming. But we really took
it more from the angle and we saw the
struggles that custodia was going
through and we took it really more from
the angle of how how would a bank do
this as opposed to how how is this going
to disrupt banking? How would banks
actually do this and do this as as a
more from the inside. So the the
legislation was really drafted in close
cooperation with uh with banks with with
the Nebraska bankers association with
some local bankers and also with the
uniform law commissioners. So the
Nebraska was the first state to uh
publish a or sorry to to pass a UCCC
update that effectively allowed you to
perfect a security in a in a control in
an electronic control record. very
complicated, but that basically means
that it gives a a a depository
institution legal grounds to use crypto
custody underneath a, you know, to to
underneath a loan that it would give to
somebody else. So, it really allows, you
know, banking to use uh to use digital
assets. Yeah. And so this obviously got
overturned last year, but there was SAB
121, which basically changed the
recording and reporting methods for how
banks were supposed to have crypto on
their balance sheets on behalf of their
clients. And so you mentioned that the
states are great because each of the
different 50 states acts as a different
petri dish and they can kind of have
different directions that they go with
supporting statebased legislation for
digital assets. But like at the end of
the day the Fed kind of overarches
everything. So when one when SAB 121 was
enacted was this kind of a threat to
what you guys were working on? Were
there ways around SAB 121 to to kind of
like work through it? What did that mean
to to telcoins kind of like gamble on
getting a state-based charter? How how
did you guys deal with that while it was
going on? Well, we were very supportive
of repealing sub 121 and you know
obviously flood drove that and we had a
lot of discussions about it because the
large banks are are slow. You think
telecoms are slowm moving beasts. I mean
these the large banks are as well and
they're particularly since the financial
crisis they're they're locked into their
business model very much so by the
regulatory requirements. I mean, I I've
been on the board of a a FTSC insured
bank now for four three years, and that
has been very interesting to see a sort
of a wizard wizard of Oz behind the
curtain look at um how how the books of
a bank appear, right? And there's all
sorts of stress tests and various
metrics that regulators force upon banks
that make it very hard for them to
immediately change their business model.
It's it's like that, you know, a
Titanic. Um, and so I I think that it
everybody, you know, it's a massive
market here and I think everyone
benefits from banks embracing digital
assets and being able to do that. Uh,
and so, you know, if if Bank of America
suddenly allowed you to take all of your
deposits off balance sheet into stable
coins, the their entire business would
implode overnight, right? So, so yeah, I
I I think that we we saw that. I I
understand how, you know, you could say,
well, why do you even need a digital
asset bank if a normal bank can now
custom digital assets, but there's a lot
to be said for not only the the
technical requirements, but also the
type of risk that's being engaged by the
institution is very different from what
the FDI currently ensures, which is
balance sheet risk against bad loans
that you might give out. Um, so there
there's definitely going to be a need to
bifurcate or to sort of firewall the two
activities and and so so I think there's
there's benefit to just being an
institution that strictly focuses on the
digital asset side of things. Yeah. I
mean, if I want my dad to get into
crypto, I would prefer him to go through
some sort of like onchain solution like
a stable coin and through a banking
entity where there is FDIC insurance.
and I know he's not going to get screwed
over by his own mistakes of not managing
a wallet um or buying the wrong token or
sending the wrong thing. I think
overwhelmingly if we're trying to
onboard the first billion users, the
banks have a very important role to play
in that or just a traditional like
entity. So I was definitely on the side
of of repealing SAB 121 and and in favor
of supporting banks. You might not find
that necessarily among the anons of
crypto Twitter. the the cippher punk
thesis and ethos. But, you know, I think
when we're looking at at bringing a huge
wave of of capital on chain and new
users that there does need to be
something familiar that we've had for
100 plus years that has learned from its
mistakes over the past 100 plus years
and and added kind of safeguard rails to
protect themselves and to protect their
their clients and customers. I do kind
of want to zoom in a little bit or or
double click on the reference you made
to custodia. From what I understand is
custodia's main value prop was fighting
what the banks do in terms of fractional
reserve lending. So at a very high level
and please correct me where I'm wrong or
help me delve further into this. You
know there was a onetoone backing for
any asset that was put into custodia.
And because of this they were going
against the basic inherent nature of a
bank to conduct fractional reserve
lending which is how banks make money.
So it was kind of fighting the the
incumbents and the way that they
operate. So, how did you guys kind of
like see that Custodia was maybe trying
to fight the waves, was trying to fight
gravity, um, and maybe even making a bad
name for themselves because they were
trying to to make the the tide go out
and show everyone who was wearing
bathing suits or not. How did you kind
of see what custodia was doing and
implement the things that you were
seeing they were running against into
your processes to make it easier to
become a state chartered digital asset
banking solution? I have a great deal of
respect for Caitlyn Long and and
custodian and everything they've they've
been doing. Um, in many ways they sort
of went out in front and took a lot of
the arrows and and we we really tried to
just sort of lay low a little bit more.
But as you pointed out, I think that we
also really just looked at this as a
different technology. We weren't really
trying to change the fact that there's
still going to be need to be an
institution that uh figures out who, you
know, offers loans and and and these
sorts of things. I we just thought and I
think that it gets to sort of her point
is that that doesn't need to be the same
institution or at least should be
firewalled from the institution that's
providing you that payment solution,
right? just because of the fact that
like you should have an an easy option
to hold something that's one for one
back. We we plan to be the first to
attach a US bank account number native,
you know, directly to a natively minted
digital dollar that's self-custodied
that's not on the balance sheet of a
bank. Um, and then, you know, as a you
could then decide to oneclick it into a
digital version of a yieldbearing
product, right, with the with us or with
another bank. uh just you know the the
point is it's sort of like that that
story of the and I don't even know if
this is true. I've heard this is not
even a true story but uh the fishermen
in India when when cell phones first
were introduced the balance of power
suddenly shifted from the people
managing the docks to the fishermen
because they anytime a fisherman went
out and had a big catch they'd text into
like five different docks and and get
the best price. um whether or not it's
true uh it's a very good story and it
and makes a good point and I think that
this is happening or this is a lot you
know enabled by what we're offering
right if if you decouple the the Fed
rail from bank custody you know being
forced to have your salary always go
directly into the custody of a single
bank you'll have a lot more uh a lot
more ability to get the best rate that
you you can right I remember when
interest rates jumped up Um, a few years
back, my mother back in St. Louis was
trying to figure out where she could get
like
4% CD or SA high yield savings, and she
found a a bank. She had to drive like 30
minutes uh in Missouri to this bank,
open the account, sat down for two
hours, open the account, and then she
had to go back to Commerce Bank and
figure out how she could do a wire
transfer. She'd never really done that
before in her life. the whole it was a
dayong process and uh that really struck
me you know why is it that hard the
modern day we have the internet why is
it that you can't you know move your
money as fast as the internet that's a
great example um my grandma was really
into CDs as well and you know byproduct
of of World War II and kind of the Great
Depression era so uh safety and security
was kind of her top concern and I think
we're in a world right now where like
safety and security of of our assets and
and US debt instruments is is kind of
top of mind. So, with like gold going up
right now in April of 2025 for anyone
who's listening to this in the future
and 30-year bond rates going up and kind
of the Dixie going down, where does
Telcoin kind of fit into this emerging
new world where the the future of the
dollar, we we can't depend on it being
super strong or or it's going to have
relative weakness. Everything is just in
flux right now uh with this
administration. So, how do you guys kind
of take advantage of these tumultuous
moments? Is this an opportunity or a
constraint? Oh, absolutely. I think it's
an opportunity. One of the things that I
think what we're doing will uh will will
affect is that, you know, it'll be
harder for governments to get away with
just taxing their people by, you know,
printing more and more money, right? And
that goes for us as well as foreign
governments. um in in DC a lot of
conversations you know there's a
priority to have you know more and more
people hold the US dollar and and I
argue that if you want a Kenyan or a
Mexican or a Turk to hold US dollars you
have to issue an an e Mexican peso Kenya
shilling or Turkish lera and and and
really see that more as a gateway to the
internet of money and obviously if a
country like in Turkey look what's
happened recently they can't get away
with that anymore and if if their
citizens can now easily one click into
the US dollar but also we won't be able
to get away with that. So so I think
that globally it'll have a positive
effect in and sort of freeing people
from those sorts of relationships in in
countries where you know the fiscal
responsibility kind of goes off the
rails. Do you guys have a physical
office in Nebraska for like your mom to
go to? because my dad thinks that
technology is the downfall of society
and I can't get him to use a brand new
app, but he will go to a bank, a
physical bank. So, is that going to be
part of of the offerings for EUSD? Oh,
are you are you in Nebraska? No, I'm
not. But,
um I'm just I'm just curious because you
brought up a great example. There's not
a lot of Nebraska there's not a lot of
Miami Dolphin fans in Nebraska. No, I'm
in I'm proudly in Colorado. Nice. Um
yeah, we do have a physical office. Um
we we've had you know discussions with
the department of banking about whether
we should open physical office. Now we
we aren't you know sure actually people
technically according to our charter
we're saying that yeah they can walk in
and ask for customer support and anyone
can walk in but we won't have like a
teller or anything right. Uh effectively
we'll be turning every ATM in the United
States into a Bitcoin ATM though. Uh so
it's not like you know that's a separate
a separate topic but um but in terms of
physical branch we would love to do that
at some point um some some sort of
innovative you know cafe style or who
knows what we could do or some some sort
of collaboration but know for right now
we're uh we're really looking for the
trust in the fact that it's regulated
that means a lot to people especially
overseas and and working with a lot of
these telecoms now that they suddenly
see that we have this regulated bank in
in establishment. It's really been
enormous for our ability to convince
them that this is all something that
they should invest in. This sounds like
a phenomenal sound bite. Can you double
click on how you're turning every bank
or every ATM in the US into a Bitcoin
ATM? Essentially, once you once you've
connected a a bank account natively to
an EUD balance, then you've done that,
right? Um and and so the the problem
with Bitcoin ATMs that that have gotten
them into into a lot of pro a lot of
trouble is that sure they they create
the technology for to do that but they
haven't really thought about uh all of
the anti-moneyaundering or other
controls that you know they need to do
to have it be accepted by regulators. So
um so yeah that's that's what we feel
we'll be doing with you know unveiling
of this bank. So, one of the things in
in digging around Telcoin and EUSD
offering is you guys aren't leveraging
the term stable coin. You're saying
digital cash. So, is there like a
differentiation as to why you're using
different nomenclature or different
wording? Yeah, I never really like the
term stable coin. It sounds like
something that is okay.
essentially taking saying that this
digital thing represents or or is is
stably tied to the value of this
underlying asset. The whole point of a
bank and the reason why if a a bank does
something like this, it's not considered
a security by US law or Canadian law or
others is that the because it's a
regulated institution. Uh the the
digital the digital thing can legally
represent the underlying asset as
opposed to being as two separate things,
one stably tied to try to track to the
value of the other. So that's where I I
see it as legally speaking, it is a
digital equivalent of the paper US
dollar. Of course, it's issued by a
regulated bank versus the Treasury. U
but legally speaking, it it is not two
separate things, one tied or pegged to
the other. One legally represents the
other, if that makes any sense. So
that's why we really look more towards
the the term digital cash versus stable
coin is we believe this is enabling the
digital equivalent of handing the the
the the merchant a $20 bill. Got it. And
so when we're looking at when we when we
take a look at the the stable coin or
volatility reduced coin ecosystem
there's basically like three major
players right now. There's fiatbacked
stable coins which is either backed by
at onetoone with a dollar in a bank
account somewhere or a US debt
instrument. There's overcolateralized
stable coins where there's 150% of a
crypto acting as collateral for a stable
coin. And then there's algorithmic
stable coins which we've seen the the
fall and rise uh spectacular falls over
over the past few years. What is Telcoin
leveraging? How are you guys backing the
EUSD digital dollar? Well, it's it's one
to one backed. Um, but it's that the way
that we back it is determined by the
legislation. The Nebraska legislation is
very similar to the draft federal
legislation, which is essentially cash
and cash equivalents can include
short-term treasuries and repo notes and
that sort of thing, but it's effectively
cash, right? And but the more important
thing is that you you don't really think
about how it's backed because it's a
regulated institution that's in you know
that sort of backing is enforced. We'll
we'll still adhere to the same sort of
transparency expectations of of others.
But part of the point is that you're
trusting in it's not you're not the the
way that we back it is not uh defined by
a policy of our company. It's defined by
you know the law of the of the land and
and enforced by the regulators. Yeah. So
when people think of like uh
forwardthinking
blockchain entities in the US you think
like New York or San Francisco because
this is these are these developer
hotbeds or as you mentioned earlier
Wyoming because they're exploring ways
in which the state supports Dows. Um,
maybe even like Texas right now because
Bitcoin miners are being incentivized to
kind of collaborate with the state of
Texas and with the the Texas energy
networks for for kind of a symbiotic
relationship.
Nebraska, this is kind of like the first
time I've ever heard Nebraska jump onto
the blockchain scene. So, do you you
guys are kind of like the trailblazers
in this. Are you already seeing your
peers or other folks in the industry who
are interested in building similar
solutions to what Telcoin is doing? Are
you starting to see a little bit more
chatter emerge on the radio waves about
wanting to locate in Nebraska? Um, is it
too soon? Because I know that this was
just recently approved. Um, what's kind
of like the finger on the pulse for
Nebraska rising on the the blockchain
radar? Well, I mean I I think well I do
know that they've had a lot of inbound
requests and so there there is
definitely a lot of interest. Um you
know I think for everybody that there
the fit might be different. You know
some of the larger companies will look
at an OC federal charter but I do think
that if you know there's there's a huge
benefit to going with a state regulator.
you know, in the United States, a a
state bank can operate uh in in in all
50 states and also in all the ways that
a bank in a federally chartered bank
can. Uh there there are some details in
that that that need to be worked out and
will be will get worked out. But the
bottom line is I think that for anyone
innovating that really is interested in
the benefits of being a a state charter
bank, which is frankly a lot less costly
than operating a federally chartered
bank. So if you're trying to do if
you're a startup, I would highly
encourage you to work with a a state
department of banking like uh the one in
Nebraska. And they've been phenomenal.
They it's that's not a rubber stamp uh
regulator. They have they know what
they're doing. They've spent a huge
amount of time getting their whole team
educated on digital assets and and um
you know they they want this to work and
they they're very excited about helping
companies uh figure out how to make
their their dreams a reality and make
you know build something beautiful. Can
you share some more of the features that
are banking like that Telcoin offers?
like if what what would I as a as a user
who's who's looking to get away from the
large guys? We don't have to mention any
names, but but like I'm looking for a
new maybe more responsive, maybe a more
innovative bank. What what would I look
at for Telcoin? What are the banking
like features that I can take advantage
of? What's something that's familiar to
me, but what's also something that's new
to me that isn't offered by like aundred
year plus old bank? The charter has the
ability to do essentially everything
that a normal bank would do, but it's
medium of exchanges and an EUSD or
digital assass as opposed to a fiat
currency. Um, but ultimately it's really
about just a newer technology and and
we'll evolve and and get into a lot of
the different things that you might
expect uh your normal bank do and
hopefully we'll do it in a more
efficient way. uh for at the beginning
we're really just focused on the
foundational building block which is
payments and and just the underlying
digital dollar connecting that with the
the current global financial system. I
think that early on if you're interested
in multicurrency, this is something that
would be, you know, if you have friends
and family abroad, you want to easily be
able to hold Mexican pesos, they want to
be able to hold US dollars, and you want
to be on the same like your like a
global version of Venmo multicurrency.
Uh, that's something that would be of
interest. Well, also just a higher
yield. I think we'll be able to very
quickly give a higher yield. Um, and if
you want not only a a bank account
number that your salary can go straight
into something that's giving you a great
yield, but also can seamlessly attach to
digital assets will be interesting for
you from the very beginning. I think by
the time our grand our grandparents or
parents end up uh using this, they
probably won't really even realize that
you're they're using they certainly
won't call it a stable coin. Yeah,
because I think that a lot of banks will
end up just integrating this into their
technology and and a lot of merchant
payments will effectively go this way, I
think. So, you mentioned payments from
from my perspective. I mean, like I came
into to crypto during the ICO era and
back then the the main thing was from
the institutions, it was blockchain, not
Bitcoin. But then we were also talking
about buying a cup of coffee with
Bitcoin. So, from my perspective, when I
think of payments, I think of two
things. Um, a can I go to Starbucks and
just like use this to buy a coffee, but
b can I use this to buy something on the
internet like from Amazon or to pay for
for some good and service? So, what's
kind of like the payment strategy? Is it
gonna be kind of like a mom and pop
shop, like I'm able to to use ZUSD to
buy eggs and bacon at like a breakfast
restaurant, or is this going to be
something that's kind of like ubiquitous
and I can just kind of like swap it in
for any payment for ecommerce? So, all
the
major payment providers seem to be
working on stable coin pilot. So, I
think before too long you'll start to
see sort of like you'll see PayPal in
addition to credit card as an e-commerce
option. I think you'll start to see uh
stablecoin as an option on e-commerce.
To me, that's that's a pretty easy one.
Um I I think that what we're a little
bit I mean so we'll support that and
we'll we'll join those. But what we're a
little more focused on is you'll have I
think this is a multi-phase process,
right?
uh we can enable the digital equivalent
to handing the merchant a $10 bill, but
you know, how do the how do you actually
get the merchant on board? I think the
first step is obviously we'll issue Visa
cards that that pull from their your
balance. That's straightforward. Should
still the merchant doesn't have to have
ever heard of stable coins or or crypto.
Um and it that would clear through the
normal system, right? through the PSP,
Visa, Mastercard processing from the
issuing merchant bank through the from
the issuing bank to merchant bank. Um
the second phase is when these stripes
of the world start to effectively accept
that for a digital cash card or balance.
In other words, uh bypassing Visa,
Mastercard and
facilitating instead of like right now
when you tap, you're you're signing an
IOU uh between agreement between you and
the merchant that then sets the stage to
facilitate this ledger balance transfer
from your bank to the merchants's bank.
Effectively, it might be a credit card
where there's an intermediate step, but
that's what's going on. what what what
we're talking about is that now the PSP
the premium service provider or the the
whoever has the the the point of sale
machine that you're tapping um they can
actually instead of facilitating that
ledger balance transfer between the two
banks they can facilitate the merchant
just cashing out their EUSD so it has a
huge ram privacy ramification as well I
I I don't need to identify myself with
every single transaction I think a lot
of people are frustrated that ever since
COVID cashless means identifying
themselves with every single
transaction, which I think uh it doesn't
need to happen. Um it also wouldn't
involve my bank at all. Right? I'm
directly transferring custody of this
EUSD balance to the merchant. All
Stripe's got to do at the end of the day
is just cash that out in a single USD
transfer taking their EUSD. And I think
that's going to happen. And that cuts
out I I think effectively that cuts out
everybody
except Google Pay, Apple Pay because
they're helping secure your handset and
the biometrics, right? And then whoever
owns that POS, they're they're each
going to get their 15 to 30 bips and
then everybody else, I think, is gets
cut out. Now, this this doesn't make
sense for all sorts of uh purchases
because if you're if you're not sure
about the quality of what you're
getting, right? Or you think you might
need to dispute, you know, something,
you shouldn't use this. You should treat
it like, hey, if if I've handed the guy
a paper $100 bill, how hard is it to me
to get my money back? Right? And that
that's what I so so there is a little
bit of a consumer education that this is
digital cash. uh your recourse is not
necessarily the same, although this is
way cheaper and this is uh can work
better. Yeah. So, I guess maybe just to
make sure I understand, I wouldn't need
to go to a merchant that accepts EUSD. I
would need to open up a debit account
with Telcoin, populate it with the
equivalent of a stable co stable coin or
digital cash. So, like put $1,000,
right? And then you use our our Visa
card and and get started. That that's
phase one, right? Right. Phase two is
more the where you you start and the
payment service provider start to
realize we don't need to run this
through all of those inter
intermediaries. So you know that and and
there's a lot of there's a lot of you
know banks and a lot of parties that are
interested in this. I mean ultimately
the whole idea of the technology is that
it's making things more efficient. Why
is it that every, you know, every single
tap costs like 2.7% or whatever on
average in the US? It doesn't need to be
that way. In a lot of foreign foreign in
foreign countries, you have even more uh
issues with that because why are we
giving this to a foreign company, right,
for every single transaction that our
our population is making. So I think
then if we start migrating to a world
where merchants and mom and pop shops
and the stripes of the world want to
start using digital cash, stable coins,
dollar
equivalents, we're we're starting to see
this massive emergence of competitors.
So like the the stable coin market cap
right now is
227.23 billion according to
rwa.xyz. The overwhelming majority is
Tether and Circle. So clearly you guys
see an opportunity to enter this market
and to compete, but so do like 40 other
digital cash stable coin providers. So
like what's the end game then? We're
trying to take market share away from
Tether, but like I also don't want to
have 40 different USD equivalents. So
like is there interoperability? Are
there going to be like stable coin
networks that you can swap these
between? What's the endgame look like
for competing but also cooperating with
other service providers? Well, that's
why we chose just an EUSD, EXYZ. We're
not really trying to brand some new
stable coin. We're talking about a
technology that, you know, any bank
could decide they want to issue an EUSD
or electronic dollar. uh it's more about
the technology and you know Tether
Tether has a market share in stable
coins but not in payments or you know so
so I do think and I also think that
competition is great I mean if a lot of
people want to do this that's great
right I think that's we're just at the
tip of the iceberg it's a really really
massive market and and we think that
obviously getting out ahead of of the
technology it's the more the marrier
right um that that's that's our feelings
we're we're not
we're we're taking a little bit more
open approach to this and um and and I
think that's the best uh path at this
point. So with the USD and Telcoin's
approach, it doesn't matter if Tether's
the winner or there are 50 other
winners. This is kind of like a
blockchain layer that's going to be able
to leverage all the different players.
Well, I mean I I wouldn't necessarily
say that about Tether. Um I would I'm
saying that what the the path that we're
going I think is really going to focus
more on the technology of payments and
the technology of banking and and we're
happy for you know Bank of America or
Chase or all these people start doing
issuing their own stable coins that's
great you know I think that means that
the merchants and payment service
providers are really going to adopt this
and everybody's payments are going to be
a lot cheaper and there's also sorts of
things that can be done particularly in
the loyalty setup that that I think will
be great for merchants and consumers a
lot better than the current situation.
The current situation is the merchants
are paying an average of like 2.3 really
more like 3% uh on every on average
every transaction and they kick about 7
of that back to less than 1% in value
back to the the consumer in the form of
like airline miles or something and
that's how they keep you kind of locked
into that. Um, but that's what we're
talking about is something where you
could a merchant could without even
asking you to sign up for any sort of
loyalty program. If they start directly
accepting this, it could kick back 5% of
EUSD that can only be spent at that that
restaurant or that establishment or that
store again in the next year. And if
it's not spent, it goes back to the to
the merchant. Much better for the
merchant. They're sure they're giving 5%
instead of 3% but they they're that
stays on their balance sheet. They're
eventually going to get it right. Much
better for the consumer. You're getting
a lot more than than you're getting from
the current schemes. Um and you don't
have to sign up for some loyalty program
to do that and disclose your stuff to
marketing campaigns and whatnot. So, so
I think a lot of interesting there's a
lot more that can be uh done that'll be
better for consumers and merchants in
this system. Yeah. Lo loyalty and and
rewards programs to me since day one
have seemed like a kind of killer use
case that I'm shocked haven't really
taken off yet. Yeah, I think that they
really require that foundation of
digital cash that's bank issued to work.
Um and so I'm hoping that that that's
something that really can take off next
year. So zooming out, we're kind of
seeing uh two bills go through Congress
right now. There's there's the the
Genius Act that's going through Senate
and there's the Stable Act that's going
through the House. Um, how do these two
different
bills impact your outlook? Um, is one
more favorable to what Telcoin is
looking to build with EUSD? Does one
bolster statebased solutions more than
the other? What's just your general
perspective on these two bills? So yeah,
we've spent a long time working with the
teams on both sides and what I can say
is that you know they've both been very
open ears and I've seen these evolve and
they're taking everybody's
recommendations. So the we've really
focused on the impact and and
interoperabil basically the state's role
obviously because we're working with the
state charter and you know I I'd say you
know both of them do accommodate what
we're doing and are and both of them are
maintaining that state option. they they
take a two different approaches to how
to kind of do that responsibly, which
without getting into the weeds, we can
totally work with both of them. Um I so
I I don't think it'll be very hard for
them to reconcile or to, you know, to
get to a final bill. uh they're both
they both effectively maintain or extend
the current interbank state interbanks
uh interstate banking system into the
stable coin realm. Uh so that's good.
Yeah. One of the kind of really
interesting things that perked my ears
when I was reading through the the most
recent markedup version of the stable
act was the inclusion of
interoperability on decentralized
networks. So, I I don't know if that was
you and your peers that kind of got the
legislators to include that, but it's
really kind of fascinating to see that
uh like a layer zero or wormhole or
something like this is going to be
leveraged for stable coins to
interoperate between different uh
ecosystems. So, like how much of that
was you and your peers kind of pulling
on the ear of legislators and saying,
you know, sometimes these stable coins
live on different networks and they need
to be able to move between different
networks. And how much of that do you
think from your perspective was kind of
legislators being forward thinking and
really understanding this this
technology? Well, we definitely uh we
definitely made an effort and I think
that we had a large influence. Um, it's
also their staffers, right? They the the
key people on this have great staff that
have really taken the effort to
understand all this. U, but no, that's
something that we preached from very
early on. You'll notice that the
Nebraska legislation is the first
charter in the United States that's
explicitly authorized to connect
consumers to DeFi. That's a big deal.
And so we really also then pushed that
at the federal level essentially arguing
that there is a national security
interest in being at the center of the
internet of money. And the only way you
do that is if you authorize the uh the
financial institutions who are getting
involved in this to connect people to
permissionless public open uh networks
and I think we were successful in making
that argument. So, from your stance, I
know that this is a speculative
question, but you're you're rubbing
elbows with the folks who who are in DC.
Do you think we see legislation pass for
for some sort of stable coin bill in
2025? Uh, absolutely. I think that the
target right now is in May. Um, and then
the target for the market structure bill
is in August. there's some effort by a
few to um join the two together I think
just to ensure that the market structure
bill actually happens this year. Uh but
that's just testament to the the belief
that the stable coin bill absolutely
will become law this year. And so it's
it's either in May that's the target or
it's going to happen later in the year.
So there's two like I mentioned earlier
there's the stable act and the Genius
Act. These are two separate bills moving
through Congress. They each have their
own nuances. What does it look like for
a May proposal and approval? Is is one
likely to succeed the other? Is there
going to be some sort of combination?
How does this look? Because from the
outside, it's very confusing. You have
two separate bills. There's there's very
different opinions and nuances between
them and there has to be some sort of
reconciliation. So, is one going to kind
of like take the lead or is there going
to be some sort of conglomeration
between the two of them? Oh, I I don't
know if I mean I I think you've had uh
you know the House was I think working
on this for a lot longer, although you
know people also in the Senate with with
Lumis and others um obviously were
pushing for this as well. So I I think I
know they're working very you know
collaboratively on this and again I
don't think the bills are very far
apart. There's been a tremendous amount
of collaborative work on this so far
this year and I think they'll get it
done after the stable coin bill passes.
You mentioned market structure. From
your perspective, from what Telcoin is
building and and what you're trying to
offer with
EUSD, does market structure, Bill impact
you guys in a positive or negative way?
Is is your job really going to start
taking off once the stable coin bill
passes? What does what does the impact
of of both bills really have on you?
Well, I mean the stable coin bill is
obviously more important for us to get
off the ground, but the market structure
bill is huge for all of the things that
can be built on top of what we're
building, right? So, you know, my
understanding is that you'll have two
parallel paths similar to a a Hester
Pierce. Yeah. So, you know, similar to
what she had proposed, I think you'll
have a a light or weight registration
process that's down one of two paths.
Either a utility token or security token
and CFTC and and
SEC. That's who knows I I don't know
what it'll be, but they both seem to be
very very actively trying to figure this
out and in a constructive manner. So, so
yeah, I think that we're excited about
that because all the things are going to
be built on top of what we're doing,
right? In terms of tokenizing securities
and and commodities and and whatnot.
Yeah, that that was uh the safe harbor.
Yes, exactly. Forward. Cool. Um, so kind
of zooming out when I was preparing for
this interview, um, I saw that you were
at D last year, you were probably at D
this year. And one of the emerging
narratives that may may not be new to
people listening to this, but if you go
on to like crypto Twitter and you see
all the anons who've been here for
three, four, seven years, the vibes are
just bad. Everybody's upset. Tokens
aren't going up. they're they're they're
mad that their insert token here isn't
mooning. But when you hear podcasts from
people that were at DS or who are
rubbing elbows with these institutional
entities, there's just a lot of positive
and favorable outlook for this asset
class and also for the technology. So
what gives? Why is there such a
divergence between like long holding
crypto users and folks who are starting
to like really become public about the
solutions they're building on top of
blockchain at like a larger scale
enterprise institutional level? Well,
that's a great question. Um, I I just
think that, you know, we need to get
excited about the fact that this is
going mainstream. I mean, there's you
you see on Twitter and and and wherever
all sorts of hype about this token or
that token and or this project, but it's
effectively a pretty small percentage of
the population that's actually gambling
on these meme coins or or what have you.
And and I I think that the the ocean is
just much larger once this hits
mainstream adoption. And but you know,
that's also more maybe more muted,
right? um the so and I do also think
like you mentioned earlier that there's
a segment of the you know supporters of
this that are a little bit more
maximalists who maybe don't like the
fact that it's going mainstream. Uh I
just encourage them to understand that
you know you really need this regulated
doorway to this for for for all this
technology to really take off and to
reach real world application adoption
and that's going to benefit every I
think all aspects of this. it may maybe
isn't good for people that want to just
use crypto to to do something bad or
hide their money, but uh you know for
all of the genuine uh efforts to do some
real world application, I think this is
it's you know obviously institutional
and and regulatory adoption is is great.
In April of this year, Standard
Chartered predicted a $2 trillion market
cap for stable coins by the end of 2028.
Um, do you align with that vision that
they share? Oh, absolutely. I I think
that, you know, even even Yeah, it
depends how you're going to count it,
too, because once it really goes
mainstream, you'll have a whole lot of
deposits there effectively in stable
coins. In other words, it's a stable
coin that's running free, but then maybe
it's deposited and on the balance sheet
of a bank. Is it really different
whether it's the underlying fiat or in
other words I think that once banks and
payment systems really start using
stable coins or digital cash more and
more as the medium of exchange and a
medium of of
banking that the the market cap or
whatever of of stable coins if you will
is is obviously going to be massive.
Awesome. So what's next on Telcoin's
roadmap? um what's something that you're
excited about going live within the next
quarter or two? So, we're I mean we're
obviously really excited to turn the
digital asset bank on in in the US. Um,
but we're also focused very heavily on
uh within a year getting to where we
have three billion people addressable
market. Three billion people that can
open an account with us or download our
app and get a local bank account number
directive directly flowing into their
country's uh digital cash equivalent of
their currency. And and so that's that's
kind of our north star at least from the
consumer product standpoint and and
that's something we're really excited
about. Awesome. So, if one of those
three billion people are listening to
this podcast, what's the best way that
they can reach out to you? Yeah. So, if
someone wants to reach me, um I I I'm
not really on Telegram, but uh email
Paul at Telcoin. Awesome. Well, Paul,
thank you so much for taking the time to
share a little bit about the the hard
work that you guys put in with the
Nebraska legislature and about your
perspectives on how stable coins are
going to become a killer app in
payments. Um, and for also just sharing
some of your insights from the federal
legislative process. Um, it's a really
exciting time right now to be in the
crypto and blockchain space regardless
of people's favorite coins not going up.
So, thank you so much for your time
today. Thank you very much, Dylan. It
was a pleasure to meet you. Cheers. All
right. Cheers. Thank you so much for
tuning in to the Smart Economy Podcast.
To stay in the loop with all our latest
episodes and insights, head over to
www.smarteconomyodcast.com. And don't
forget to subscribe to our YouTube
channel for all of our video content. If
you enjoyed today's discussion, please
show your support by liking, commenting,
and reviewing this episode on your
favorite podcasting platform. Your
feedback helps us reach more listeners
and brings even better content your way.
We'd also love to hear from you, so
please drop a comment on Spotify or
YouTube to share what topics you'd like
us to cover or who you'd like to see as
our next guest. And if you or someone
else you might know would make a great
guest, please don't hesitate to reach
out. We're always looking for fresh
voices and new perspectives. And for our
NEO token holders out there, please
consider voting for NEON news today as
your council representative. We've
proudly been serving the NEO ecosystem
since 2017. We'll continue to do so by
putting portions of our council rewards
directly back into ecosystem growth
initiatives. Thank you once again so
much for listening to this episode of
the Smart Economy podcast and we will
catch you next time.
[Applause]